# CF Extension Specification

- **Title:** CF
- **Identifier:** <https://stac-extensions.github.io/cf/v0.3.0/schema.json>
- **Field Name Prefix:** cf
- **Scope:** Item, Collection
- **Extension [Maturity Classification](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/tree/master/extensions/README.md#extension-maturity):** Proposal
- **Owner**: @Fred-Leclercq

This document explains the CF Extension to the [SpatioTemporal Asset Catalog](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec) (STAC) specification.
It adds a field to provide the Standard Name Table based on the [CF metadata convention](http://cfconventions.org/).

- Examples:
  - [Item](examples/item.json) and [Collection](examples/collection.json):
    Shows the basic usage of the extension in a STAC Item and a corresponding summarizing STAC Collection
- [JSON Schema](json-schema/schema.json)
- [Changelog](./CHANGELOG.md)

## Fields

The fields in the table below can be used in these parts of STAC documents:
- [ ] Catalogs
- [x] Collections
- [x] Item Properties (incl. Summaries in Collections)
- [x] Assets (for both Collections and Items, incl. Item Asset Definitions in Collections)
- [ ] Links

| Field Name   | Type                        | Description                                                                         |
| ------------ | --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| cf:standard_name | string | Should be a non-empty value from the 
[CF Standard Name Table](https://cfconventions.org/Data/cf-standard-names/current/build/cf-standard-name-table.html) if variable 
has a standard_name definition in the CF convention. Otherwise standard_name remains an empty value. |
| cf:cell_methods       | \[string] | This is a list of string attributes that describe the "method" applied to the data as 
defined in the CF conventions. |
| cf:long_name          | string | When using this CF extension within another extension that does not have a "description" 
field defined, this field name can be used for a long descriptive name of the variable as defined in the CF conventions. |
| cf:units              | string | When using this CF extension within another extension that does not have a "unit" field 
defined, this field name can be used for specifying the unit of the variable. |

### Additional Field Information

#### cf:cell_methods
The cell_methods attribute in the CF (Climate and Forecast) convention is designed to describe how the values in a data variable 
were derived with respect to one or more axes (e.g., time, latitude, longitude). Each "method" represents the statistical or 
computational operations applied to data along specific axes. For example, if data values have been generated by computing time 
means, then this could be indicated with cell_methods="t: mean", assuming here that the name of the time dimension variable is "t". 
See [CF Cell Methods](https://cfconventions.org/cf-conventions/cf-conventions.html#cell-methods) for more details.

#### cf:long_name
The use of this field is conditional that there is no "description" field already defined as part of another extension that is used. 
For example the datacube extension has a "description" field defined which would take priority in use over this field. 
However, if there is no "description" field defined within an extension then this field name can be used. 
The long_name attribute is defined by the [NUG](https://docs.unidata.ucar.edu/nug/current/index.html) to contain a long descriptive 
name which may, for example, be used for labeling plots. 
See [CF conventions](https://cfconventions.org/cf-conventions/cf-conventions.html#long-name) for more details.

#### cf:units
The use of this field is conditional that there is no "unit" field already defined as part of another extension that is used. 
For example, the [datacube extension](https://github.com/stac-extensions/datacube) has a "unit" field defined that also 
requires UDUNITS compliance, which would take priority in use over this field. 

## Contributing

All contributions are subject to the
[STAC Specification Code of Conduct](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
For contributions, please follow the
[STAC specification contributing guide](https://github.com/radiantearth/stac-spec/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) Instructions
for running tests are copied here for convenience.

### Running tests

The same checks that run as checks on PR's are part of the repository and can be run locally to verify that changes are valid. 
To run tests locally, you'll need `npm`, which is a standard part of any [node.js installation](https://nodejs.org/en/download/).

First you'll need to install everything with npm once. Just navigate to the root of this repository and on 
your command line run:
```bash
npm install
```

Then to check markdown formatting and test the examples against the JSON schema, you can run:
```bash
npm test
```

This will spit out the same texts that you see online, and you can then go and fix your markdown or examples.

If the tests reveal formatting problems with the examples, you can fix them with:
```bash
npm run format-examples
```
